README.md, before:

[![Farmhand](public/farmhand-logo-kairi-large.png)](https://www.farmhand.life)

<sub>_Logo art by [Kairi](https://discord.com/channels/714539345050075176/714539345637408793/859622159176302625)_</sub>

[![Current Farmhand version](https://badgen.net/npm/v/@jeremyckahn/farmhand)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jeremyckahn/farmhand) [![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand)

### A farming game by [Jeremy Kahn](https://github.com/jeremyckahn)

**[Play Farmhand in your browser!](https://www.farmhand.life/)**

- `develop`: [![CI](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions?query=workflow%3ACI) [![Release New Version](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml)
- All versioned releases available at [unpkg](https://unpkg.com/browse/@jeremyckahn/farmhand/build/)
- [Wiki](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/wiki)
- [Data model documentation](https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/docs/index.html)
- [API deployment logs](https://farmhand.vercel.app/_logs)

Community links:

- Discord link: [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/714539345050075176?label=farmhand)](https://discord.gg/6cHEZ9H)
- Twitter link: [![@farmhandgame](https://badgen.net/twitter/follow/farmhandgame)](https://twitter.com/farmhandgame)
- Reddit link: [![r/FarmhandGame](https://img.shields.io/reddit/subreddit-subscribers/FarmhandGame?style=social)](https://www.reddit.com/r/FarmhandGame/)

Storefront links:

- https://jeremyckahn.itch.io/farmhand
- https://plaza.dsolver.ca/games/farmhand

Farmhand is a resource management game that puts a farm in your hand. It is designed to be both desktop and mobile-friendly and fun for 30 seconds or 30 minutes at a time. Can you build a thriving farming business? Give it a try and find out!

This is an open source project built with web technologies. It is implemented as a [Progressive Web App](https://web.dev/what-are-pwas/), which means it can be played in your web browser or installed onto your device for offline play.

## State of the project

Farmhand is completely playable and stable. However, the game should not be considered "finished," inasmuch as it will never be finished. It is an ongoing open source project that will grow and improve organically over time. Stability and cohesiveness are top priorities for the project. It'll only ever get better and have more content over time!

[This GitHub project](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/projects/1) is used for tracking and organizing work. If you'd like to suggest a feature or ask a question, please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/issues), or [join the Discord](https://discord.gg/6cHEZ9H).

## Versioning system

Farmhand uses a [SemVer](https://semver.org/)-like versioning system. It differs from SemVer because Farmhand is a game and doesn't expose a public API. Rather than the game version being based on an API, it reflects the internal data structure, [`farmhand.state`](https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/docs/farmhand.html#.state).

- `major`: Is incremented when `farmhand.state` has been changed in a backwards-incompatible way.
  - When these releases are made, automatic migration functionality will keep this transparent to the player.
- `minor`: Is incremented when `farmhand.state` has been changed in a backwards-compatible way.
- `patch`: Is incremented when `farmhand.state` has been not been changed. This also includes gameplay features and bug fixes that do not result in changes to `farmhand.state`.
  - This implies that significant game changes may only result in `patch`-level releases.

## Branch structure

- Active development takes place in `develop`.
- `main` is updated when `develop` is stable.
- `gh-pages` contains the built assets and is updated automatically when `main` is updated.

## Project overview

- This project is built with [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/), so please refer to the documentation of that project to learn about the development toolchain.
- Farmhand uses [Piskel](https://www.piskelapp.com/) for the art assets.

## Running locally

Requires:

- Node/NPM
- Docker
- [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) (or alternatively [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com))

In your shell, run this to ensure you're using the correct Node version and install all of the dependencies:

```sh
nvm i
npm ci
```

If `npm ci` errors out due to PhantomJS installation errors (this has been seen in some WSL/Linux environments), try `npm_config_tmp=/tmp npm ci` instead. [See this related comment](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/1016#issuecomment-283067214). Alternatively, try `npm ci --no-optional`.

To run the game locally with the API and Redis database, run:

```sh
npm run dev
```

Note that you will need a Vercel account and be logged into locally for this to work (at least until [Vercel fixes this](https://github.com/vercel/vercel/discussions/4925)). Alternatively, if you just want to run the front end with no API or backend, you can run:

```sh
npm start
```

In this case, the local app will be using the Production API and database. However you boot, Farmhand will be accessible from http://localhost:3000/.

### Multiplayer system architecture

The system design for Farmhand's multiplayer functionality has been [detailed in this blog post](https://dev.to/jeremyckahn/how-i-designed-an-abuse-resistant-fault-tolerant-zero-cost-multiplayer-online-game-140g).

### CI/CD

Automation is done with [GitHub Actions](.github/workflows). All changes are tested and built upon Git push. Merges to `main` automatically deploy to Production (the `gh-pages` branch) upon a successful test run and build.

### Releasing updates

Use this GitHub Action to deploy a new version of Farmhand: [![Release New Version](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml)

As an authenticated repo owner or collaborator, click "Run workflow" and enter the argument to be passed to [`npm version`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-version) and press the green "Run workflow". For updates that do not change [`farmhand.state`](https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/docs/farmhand.html#.state) (which is most of them), use the default `patch` version. This workflow will deploy Farmhand to:

- https://www.farmhand.life/
- https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/
- https://jeremyckahn.itch.io/farmhand
- https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jeremyckahn/farmhand
  - Playable from https://unpkg.com/browse/@jeremyckahn/farmhand/build/

The process will take about 3-4 minutes to complete and it will notify the Discord server's `#updates` channel. It is customary to explain what you just shipped in the `#updates` channel as well.

## Feature flags

Farmhand supports feature flags for code that should only be enabled in specific environments. To create a feature flag, add a line that looks like this in the relevant `.env` file:

```
REACT_APP_ENABLE_[FEATURE_NAME]=true
```

Where `[FEATURE_NAME]` is replaced with the name of your feature. So, adding this to `.env.development.local`:

```
REACT_APP_ENABLE_MINING=true
```

Would enable the `MINING` feature only for the local development environment. You can access the enabled feature flags at runtime by `import`ing the `features` Object from [`config.js`](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/blob/develop/src/config.js). See [Adding Custom Environment Variables](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-custom-environment-variables/) for more information on how to use environment variables.

In addition to enabling features via environment variables, players can manually enable them in the browser (such as for beta testing). This can be done by manually constructing a URL query parameter that looks like `?enable_[FEATURE_NAME]=true`. For example, to enable the `MINING` feature, players could use the URL https://www.farmhand.life?enable_MINING=true.

## License

[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode).

Commit message:

[closes #281] Smoke test issue templates (#285)
* chore: start on Farmhand Smoke Test Checklist

* chore: add smoke test issue template

* docs: add note about issues found during smoke testing

README.md, after:

[![Farmhand](public/farmhand-logo-kairi-large.png)](https://www.farmhand.life)

<sub>_Logo art by [Kairi](https://discord.com/channels/714539345050075176/714539345637408793/859622159176302625)_</sub>

[![Current Farmhand version](https://badgen.net/npm/v/@jeremyckahn/farmhand)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jeremyckahn/farmhand) [![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand)

### A farming game by [Jeremy Kahn](https://github.com/jeremyckahn)

**[Play Farmhand in your browser!](https://www.farmhand.life/)**

- `develop`: [![CI](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions?query=workflow%3ACI) [![Release New Version](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml)
- All versioned releases available at [unpkg](https://unpkg.com/browse/@jeremyckahn/farmhand/build/)
- [Wiki](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/wiki)
- [Data model documentation](https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/docs/index.html)
- [API deployment logs](https://farmhand.vercel.app/_logs)

Community links:

- Discord link: [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/714539345050075176?label=farmhand)](https://discord.gg/6cHEZ9H)
- Twitter link: [![@farmhandgame](https://badgen.net/twitter/follow/farmhandgame)](https://twitter.com/farmhandgame)
- Reddit link: [![r/FarmhandGame](https://img.shields.io/reddit/subreddit-subscribers/FarmhandGame?style=social)](https://www.reddit.com/r/FarmhandGame/)

Storefront links:

- https://jeremyckahn.itch.io/farmhand
- https://plaza.dsolver.ca/games/farmhand

Farmhand is a resource management game that puts a farm in your hand. It is designed to be both desktop and mobile-friendly and fun for 30 seconds or 30 minutes at a time. Can you build a thriving farming business? Give it a try and find out!

This is an open source project built with web technologies. It is implemented as a [Progressive Web App](https://web.dev/what-are-pwas/), which means it can be played in your web browser or installed onto your device for offline play.

## State of the project

Farmhand is completely playable and stable. However, the game should not be considered "finished," inasmuch as it will never be finished. It is an ongoing open source project that will grow and improve organically over time. Stability and cohesiveness are top priorities for the project. It'll only ever get better and have more content over time!

[This GitHub project](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/projects/1) is used for tracking and organizing work. If you'd like to suggest a feature or ask a question, please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/issues), or [join the Discord](https://discord.gg/6cHEZ9H).

## Versioning system

Farmhand uses a [SemVer](https://semver.org/)-like versioning system. It differs from SemVer because Farmhand is a game and doesn't expose a public API. Rather than the game version being based on an API, it reflects the internal data structure, [`farmhand.state`](https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/docs/farmhand.html#.state).

- `major`: Is incremented when `farmhand.state` has been changed in a backwards-incompatible way.
  - When these releases are made, automatic migration functionality will keep this transparent to the player.
- `minor`: Is incremented when `farmhand.state` has been changed in a backwards-compatible way.
- `patch`: Is incremented when `farmhand.state` has been not been changed. This also includes gameplay features and bug fixes that do not result in changes to `farmhand.state`.
  - This implies that significant game changes may only result in `patch`-level releases.

## Branch structure

- Active development takes place in `develop`.
- `main` is updated when `develop` is stable.
- `gh-pages` contains the built assets and is updated automatically when `main` is updated.

## Project overview

- This project is built with [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/), so please refer to the documentation of that project to learn about the development toolchain.
- Farmhand uses [Piskel](https://www.piskelapp.com/) for the art assets.

## Running locally

Requires:

- Node/NPM
- Docker
- [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) (or alternatively [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com))

In your shell, run this to ensure you're using the correct Node version and install all of the dependencies:

```sh
nvm i
npm ci
```

If `npm ci` errors out due to PhantomJS installation errors (this has been seen in some WSL/Linux environments), try `npm_config_tmp=/tmp npm ci` instead. [See this related comment](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/1016#issuecomment-283067214). Alternatively, try `npm ci --no-optional`.

To run the game locally with the API and Redis database, run:

```sh
npm run dev
```

Note that you will need a Vercel account and be logged into locally for this to work (at least until [Vercel fixes this](https://github.com/vercel/vercel/discussions/4925)). Alternatively, if you just want to run the front end with no API or backend, you can run:

```sh
npm start
```

In this case, the local app will be using the Production API and database. However you boot, Farmhand will be accessible from http://localhost:3000/.

### Multiplayer system architecture

The system design for Farmhand's multiplayer functionality has been [detailed in this blog post](https://dev.to/jeremyckahn/how-i-designed-an-abuse-resistant-fault-tolerant-zero-cost-multiplayer-online-game-140g).

### CI/CD

Automation is done with [GitHub Actions](.github/workflows). All changes are tested and built upon Git push. Merges to `main` automatically deploy to Production (the `gh-pages` branch) upon a successful test run and build.

### Smoke Testing

All are welcome to help with smoke testing Farmhand to ensure the game is stable! All you need is to be logged into GitHub and open a [new Smoke Test Report issue](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/issues/new?template=smoke-test-report.md). This issue will have interactive checkboxes that you can use to track your progress. Once smoke testing is complete, please close the issue.

It would be a good idea to perform a smoke test whenever there is a significant change to the codebase (such as a major new feature or refactor). The process is intended to catch defects before making a Production release. If any issues are encountered during testing, please leave a comment on the Smoke Test Report issue explaining what you experienced. Non-trivial issues should be addressed by the dev team before releasing to the Production environment.

### Releasing updates

Use this GitHub Action to deploy a new version of Farmhand: [![Release New Version](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/actions/workflows/run-release.yml)

As an authenticated repo owner or collaborator, click "Run workflow" and enter the argument to be passed to [`npm version`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-version) and press the green "Run workflow". For updates that do not change [`farmhand.state`](https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/docs/farmhand.html#.state) (which is most of them), use the default `patch` version. This workflow will deploy Farmhand to:

- https://www.farmhand.life/
- https://jeremyckahn.github.io/farmhand/
- https://jeremyckahn.itch.io/farmhand
- https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jeremyckahn/farmhand
  - Playable from https://unpkg.com/browse/@jeremyckahn/farmhand/build/

The process will take about 3-4 minutes to complete and it will notify the Discord server's `#updates` channel. It is customary to explain what you just shipped in the `#updates` channel as well.

## Feature flags

Farmhand supports feature flags for code that should only be enabled in specific environments. To create a feature flag, add a line that looks like this in the relevant `.env` file:

```
REACT_APP_ENABLE_[FEATURE_NAME]=true
```

Where `[FEATURE_NAME]` is replaced with the name of your feature. So, adding this to `.env.development.local`:

```
REACT_APP_ENABLE_MINING=true
```

Would enable the `MINING` feature only for the local development environment. You can access the enabled feature flags at runtime by `import`ing the `features` Object from [`config.js`](https://github.com/jeremyckahn/farmhand/blob/develop/src/config.js). See [Adding Custom Environment Variables](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-custom-environment-variables/) for more information on how to use environment variables.

In addition to enabling features via environment variables, players can manually enable them in the browser (such as for beta testing). This can be done by manually constructing a URL query parameter that looks like `?enable_[FEATURE_NAME]=true`. For example, to enable the `MINING` feature, players could use the URL https://www.farmhand.life?enable_MINING=true.

## License

[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode).
